Welcome back in this lesson we are going to be looking at a block level declaration so we're going to
be looking at brand new ones let in Kautz so previously within the earlier lessons we got really comfortable
and familiar with are.
And we could declare a variable and we saw that we could work with those variables within our Javascript
code.
So now with ESX there is something new and that is thinking of variables and Dick declarations of those
values having more control over them.
So now we have what's known as lexical scoping and Javascript and basically these declarations don't
get hoisted.
They only exist within the block of code that they are declared.
So if I set up a constant and Konst instead of V-A are to declare variables we're going to use Konst
So we're declaring B as constant and I'll show you how these are going to work within Chrome.
And that's one of the good things about Crome is that it's fairly ESX friendly.
And that's why one of the reasons why we like using Chrome within web developer courses is because it's
really truly compatible with most of the latest versions and updates with Javascript.
So I've set up three different variables here so I've got variable A which is just a VAR and variable
B which is a constant and then variable c which is left.
So let me show you what the differences between these and I'll do this one as hello world as well.
So one of the things is that there's not a whole lot of difference because they're all being declared
within the same block.
So when I say that they're being declared in the same block they're being declared within the window
block and there is a difference here.
And the output here.
So I do refresh it.
If I go into the console we're going to be working quite a bit within the console and upcoming lessons.
So if I do a b and c they don't actually look any different within our output here.
So now let's take a look at the windows object so if I do window A I get hello world.
And do you think with window B I'm going to get.
Hello world.
I don't actually get or constant.
I don't actually get a defined value.
And the same thing with window seat.
And that's because they're not being held within the window object.
So that's a big difference as to how these variables are being treated.
And they're only available within the block that's been that it's been called within.
So basically we've got more control now over the life cycle of these variables.
Now there's a few other things that we can look out and there's a few other differences.
So if I do a console log a and I'm trying to access it before it's been declared and if I refresh it
we get undefined back.
But what happens if I try to access variable b before it actually gets declared.
So let me show you and we'll refresh it and we get an error because just like what we saw with within
Babel that this is more strict.
So we're javascript is less forgiving as before with earlier versions of javascript we had hoisting
and we know that even though we hadn't yet declared a variable we could we could see that it's we're
not going to throw an error because javascript is actually trying to work with it so it's doing hoisting
of those values of those declarations before they're actually being declared within that code.
So we've got to be a lot more careful with these newer block level declarations because they will throw
errors if we try to do something like that.
So something else that is.
So there's a big Also big difference between Konst and let.
So let's say for instance let me save this and refresh it.
So we know what variable A we can reassign a new value to it.
So I can do at any point I can go a equals new and then a return back new but what happens if I try
to do B equals new.
And remember Konst is short for constant.
And basically that means that we can't reassign the value so once we've declared it as a constant value
there's no changing it.
There's no reader declaring that you can't change it.
You can't assign a new value to it.
It's going to throw an error and you're going to see that error here within the console.
But when it comes to let We do have the ability to reassign the value.
So let.
In a way where it's similar to var where we do have that ability that we can update and change them.
And also keeping in mind with Latt we can't try to use them before we've declared them as well.
So let me show you a great example of where you can use these new declarations and earlier we got really
familiar with the for loop.
So now instead of setting a variable let's do let I equals zero and we're going to do this loop while
I is less less than that.
So while it is less than five and let's increment I and then add in something.
So just console log out whatever the value of it is at the time so see how that works.
So if I refreshed and I can see that I start out at zero so just as we would typically expect with a
loop where we start with our initial value we increment it until it meets that condition and then it
breaks.
But what happens if I try to grab it outside I'm not able to actually see I after this block because
anything with the curly brackets this is concerted or a block of code.
So basically anything if we're trying to access outside just as we saw earlier with functions that whenever
we're declaring a variable within a function then it's local to that function.
And this is the same idea that we're declaring it locally within this block and we can't access it outside
of the block where as if we change this back to a VAR and if I refresh the page and then I try to access
I.
I see that it's got a value of 5.
So it still exists within my within my scope and it's not it hasn't been destroyed after we've used
it.
And this is one of the main reasons why we use these brand new formats because we need to get more control
over the variables because sometimes whenever you are declaring variables you've got a lot of variables
floating around within the global scope.
And it's not always a great idea especially if you've got a really long program.
So all these little short code snippets it really wouldn't matter.
But if you've got a really long program then this is one of the main sources for errors is when we have
problems with variables that are just floating around and that they are outside of their original scope
or they have been used and they're still floating around within the global scale.
And the other problem as well is that if we're writing into the global scope so that's where we saw
that we can do window a.
So that's sitting within the window global scope then we can also overwrite part of what is available
within the window object.
And we don't want to do that so we could technically if we wanted to we could grab one of these and
we see that A is sitting within it.
And if we've got some values we might inadvertently overwrite them by mistake and then we try to use
them then they're not going to exist as they initially existed within the browser.
So again there's a lot of room for error and you can see even the eye is still existing in there and
it just builds and adds in there.
And again if you have a really long program if you've got a lot of variables then it's going to clutter
up that window object.
So what I want you to do now is try this out create a Konst create a left variable and then also try
to access it outside of the scope that you've declared to them.
You can also do it with a conditional statement.
So we can do something like if if a.
And then if it exists then we can do let de inkwells
works that will console log the.
And then we can do an else statement and we can actually do the exact same thing so we could let D and
equal not working and we'll console log out d and then at the end of this condition then let's try to
console log.
So what do you think is going to happen here.
Well I was keeping in mind that we've declared them locally within the scope so that scope is the curly
brackets.
So both of these are locally done within.
So what do you think is going to happen and will we refresh it if you said it's going to throw an error.
You are correct because it is going to throw an error.
So go ahead and open up your editor and try it for yourself.
Create some let's Konst and build them add them into the local scopes.